\label{sec:mpa}

A cryptocurrency that has the properties and advantages of Bitcoin, but is also
capable of maintaining price parity with a globally adopted currency (e.g.
U.S. dollar), would have incredible high utility for convenient and
censorship-resistant commerce. This has been achieved by BitShares' smartcoins,
a new type of freely traded digital asset whose function has been designed to
track the value of a underlying conventional asset by means of collateralized
blockchain loan.

A \emph{SmartCoin} (synonym for MPA) is a cryptocurrency that has 100\% or more
of its value backed by the BitShares core currency (BTS), to which they can be
converted at any time, as \emph{collateral} in a smart-contract based loan.

What makes MPAs unique is that they are free from counterparty risk even though
they resemble a loan backed by collateral. This is achieved by allowing the
network itself (implemented as a software protocol) to be responsible for
securing the collateral and performing settlements. This will be described in
greater detail below.

We will present SmartCoins as a viable open source alternative to the slow,
restrictive, and expensive ``legacy'' banking system.  SmartCoins that have
price parity with a commonly used currency will enable merchant adoption with
ease and efficiency. Also, they will reduce the need to calculate capital gains
and losses on volatile assets to determine tax liability. In short, BitShares
is bringing \emph{publicly} auditable open source banking to anyone with access
to the internet. MPAs allow savers and spenders to choose their preferred asset
type, which brings flexibility and ease of use to the open source banking
experience.

The subsequent paragraphs will explain how smartcoins achieve price parity
while minimizing risk to their holders.
